README.adoc, before:

= HTTP Source

A simple implementation of an _http source_, accepting POST requests
and sending messages to output stream(s) configured _via_ environment variables.

== Building
Having a working go 1.13+ installation and ko[https://github.com/google/ko] installed, simply run
[source, bash]
----
ko publish github.com/projectriff-samples/http-source/cmd
----

This will publish an image whose coordinates should be noted down for further use, `<image>` below.

== Using with riff
One way to use this source is to create a container out of the image
coordinates and create a core[https://projectriff.io/docs/v0.5/runtimes/core]
or knative[https://projectriff.io/docs/v0.5/runtimes/knative] deployer. Here's an example:

Assuming a "in" stream exists and has already been created:
[source, bash]
----
riff streaming stream list

riff streaming stream list
NAME     TOPIC            GATEWAY                                  PROVIDER                  CONTENT-TYPE       STATUS   AGE
in       default_in       franz-kafka-liiklus-bqgp2.default:6565   franz-kafka-provisioner   application/json   Ready    8d
----

Note the _gateway_, _topic_ and _content-type_ of the stream.

Create a container out of the image created above:
[source, bash]
----
riff container create http-source-container --image <image>
----

Create a deployer out of that container, setting the expected environment variables:
[source, bash]
----
riff core deployer creata http-source --container-ref http-source-container \
   --env OUTPUTS=<gateway>/<topic> \
   --env OUTPUT_CONTENT_TYPES=<content-type>
----

Then the source can be exposed (_e.g._ with a port-forward) and invoked with
[source, bash]
----
curl http://<host>:<port>/ -HContent-Type:<content-type> -v -d <data>
----

Commit message:

Changes OUTPUTS to be a list of mappings.

README.adoc, after:

= HTTP Source

A simple implementation of an _http source_, accepting POST requests
and sending messages to output stream(s) configured _via_ environment variables.

== Building
Having a working go 1.13+ installation and ko[https://github.com/google/ko] installed, simply run
[source, bash]
----
ko publish github.com/projectriff-samples/http-source/cmd
----

This will publish an image whose coordinates should be noted down for further use, `<image>` below.

== Configuration
The source expects the following environment variables when running:

* `OUTPUTS` is a comma separated list of mappings, in the form `<path>=<gateway>/<topic>` where `<path>` is a
url prefix that will be matched against incoming http requests. See golang's https://golang.org/pkg/net/http/#ServeMux[ServerMux]
documentation for details.
* `OUTPUT_CONTENT_TYPES` is a comma separated list (same size as `OUTPUTS`) indicating the expected
content-type of each stream.

== Using with riff
One way to use this source is to create a container out of the image
coordinates and create a core[https://projectriff.io/docs/v0.5/runtimes/core]
or knative[https://projectriff.io/docs/v0.5/runtimes/knative] deployer. Here's an example:

Assuming both "orders" and "quotes" streams exist and have already been created:
[source, bash]
----
riff streaming stream list

riff streaming stream list
NAME     TOPIC            GATEWAY                                  PROVIDER                  CONTENT-TYPE       STATUS   AGE
orders   default_orders   franz-kafka-gateway-bqgp2.default:6565   franz-kafka-provisioner   application/json   Ready    8d
quotes   default_quotes   franz-kafka-gateway-bqgp2.default:6565   franz-kafka-provisioner   text/xml           Ready    8d
----

Note the _gateway_, _topic_ and _content-type_ of each stream, this will be used later.

Create a container out of the image created above:
[source, bash]
----
riff container create http-source-container --image <image>
----

Create a deployer out of that container, setting the expected environment variables:
[source, bash]
----
riff core deployer creata http-source --container-ref http-source-container \
   --env OUTPUTS=/orders=franz-kafka-gateway-bqgp2.default:6565/default_orders,/q=franz-kafka-gateway-bqgp2.default:6565/default_quotes \
   --env OUTPUT_CONTENT_TYPES=application/json,text/xml
----

Then the source can be exposed (_e.g._ with a port-forward) and invoked with
[source, bash]
----
curl http://<host>:<port>/orders -HContent-Type:application/json -v -d <data>
----
to send data to the `orders` stream and with
[source, bash]
----
curl http://<host>:<port>/q -HContent-Type:text/xml -v -d <data>
----
to send to the `quotes` stream.
